{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12740\viewh19580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs120 \cf0 SOIL PUNK\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 Facilitator manual_Version 01\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 \
FIND THE RIGHT SOIL....\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 River beds and swamps ( areas where water has a reddish color.\
preferably collect deep samples not from the surface)\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Ma
\f2 t
\f0 erials and 
\f2 t
\f0 ools\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 - Mud ( samples should be collected in advacne )\
- Containers ( ex: glass jar or plastic - Around 1L)\
- Electric wires ( Copper wires 30 cm - 2 wires are\
needed per battery)\
- Stainless steel grids (To be cut in rectangles. per\
battery size 5*7 cm)\
- Epoxy glue (Will be sent from Amsterdam)\
- Active coal (Will be sent from Amsterdam)\
- Agar ( 10 g is needed per battery)\
- Salts substances ( any broth powder - 1 pack)\
- Led diodes (1,5-2,8 V) the lower the voltage the better\
- Multimeter\
- Pot, Stove & scale.\
- Drinking Water\
- liquids measuring cup.\
- Tape (or anything to mark different wires)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Process\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 1. Making the Cathodes:\
To make the cathodes you need the active coal, epoxy glue, stainless\
steel nets and the electric wires.\
- First empty the pills of the active coal provided to get the powder\
out, and place it on a sheet. (about 10 pills powder per 1 cathode disc)\
- Secondly, cut the net in a circle or rectangular, and make it in two\
layers so it can hold the glue and coal well.\
- Then brush the glue on the net and dip it in the coal. Make sure that\
you add enough glue and that you are pressing the coal well into the\
glue.\
- After making sure that all the net is covered with glue and pressed\
with coal, connect the net from one of the sides to the electric wire.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs42 \cf0 1. Preparing first part of the Soil Battery:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 For this step you need the container (glass jar), mud, the dried cathodes.\
- First put the cathode in the container (make sure that the glue dried\
and the coal is stuck to it).\
- Secondly, fill the jar with mud so it covers the cathode, keeping the\
wire out of the container.\
- Mark the wire with tape to identify that its negative. (black = negative)\
- Then hit the container to get all the trapped air bubbles out. It is very\
important to release the air bubbles from the mud.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs42 \cf0 2. Making the proton exchange membrane:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Per battery: to make the membrane you need 10 gram Agar, 285ml\
water, 2gram broth, stove, and pan.\
- First put the agar, broth and water in a pot on low temperature. keep\
on steering the mix.\
- wait 3 minutes after boiling, then turn off the fire.\
- Wait until the temperature of the mixture goes down. When it cools\
down the mixture become harder until its gelatine. That\'92s why it\'92s important\
to not wait until it\'92s cooled down completely.\
- While the mix is still somehow warm and in a liquid state. You pour\
the mixture in the jar over the soil. This is step must be done in 2 parts.\
First add half of the mix and make sure that the cathode wire is\
coming out from the middle. Wait 1 minute then add the second half,\
to make sure that the first layer hardens, stays over the soil and not mix\
with it. Also, make sure to keep the wire of the cathode in the center\
while the agar is hardening. This would be easier to follow the next\
steps.\
\
- After pouring the agar in the jar. wait for 10 mins so the agar is\
completely hard and settled.\
- Make sure the top part of the jar over the agar is clean from any mud.\
if not, you should clean it using a tissue. \
- Add water on top of the agar so it fills the jar.\
- Add a wire in the water. Mark this wire with a different tape as positive. (Red = positive)\
- Measure the current with multimeter. Check the voltage and the amp.\
- Re measure the current after an hour and see if it increases. It\'92s always\
good to keep track.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs42 \cf0 3. Connect the mud battery to Joule Thief Module:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 - Connect the negative end to the hole #3 on the breadboard \
- Connect the positive end to the hole #16 on the breadboard\
}